Soon, document will have .md extension...

This is Student Case Study about node.js + mongoDB by international company Atomia.
Here you can find simple restful/JSON web interface with following features:
- data representation in tree form with expansion/collapse option
- list all data in one collection
- find data by objectId
- add new JSON object with arbitrary number of attributes
- remove data by objectId

All request from client to server are performed using ajax.
On server side, we need NODE executable file, MongoDB instalation and node.js driver for MongoDB.

Further, you can see a brief description about
- what you need to download
- how to install required programs on local mashine with WINDOWS 7 operating system
to start up this interface and be capable to move on.

First of all, it is assumed that you have github account and GitBash installed on pc.
If you don't have jet, follow instructions on https://github.com/plansand then back.

Step 1. Downloading and installing required programs

NODE
First we need node.js from http://nodejs.org/#download. 
There you can find under section "Other release files (like .exe and .pdb)" node.exe. 
Download wherever on local mashine.
It's good to know that you can adjust your computer to recognize command 'node' from any 
directory where you can find through win commander. For this option, follow the guidelines
Control Panel -> System -> Advanced system settings - > Environment variables -> 
and there you can edit variable 'Path' and just attach on start path to the file node.exe.
If you download file on D:/Node/node.exe, you will write out D:\Node;. Don't forget semicolon.

MongoDB
From http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Quickstart+Windows download appropriate version for
your system (32b/64b). There is no special installation, just unzip files in some folder.
You will find inside folder 'bin' files mongod.exe and mongo.exe. First of them is apllication 
which represents mongoDB server on localhost with port 27017. The other one is administrative shell 
that connects on mongoDB server which allows user to manage data through a series of commands. 

node.js driver for MongoDB - node-mongodb-native
This is usually done with Node Package Manager - npm, but it can't be installed on Windows.
At least I have not found. Instead, you can pull content from https://github.com/christkv/node-mongodb-native via GitBush or go direct to this link and download zip package. 
It's necessary that documents from this package are stored relatively to the server .js file. 
As you can see in this respository, there is 'server' folder and within it is db.js document 
that represents server apllication, intermediary between our web interface and database server.
In this folder you have to make one more called 'node_modules' and within another called 'mongodb'.
Now unzip downloaded package in this directory and you will be able to connect to mongoDB from db.js. 

Step 2. Understanding the example
Now when we have everything for coding, you can fork or download content from this respository. 
To run all correctly follow these instructions:
  First of all, start mongo database server by going on mongodb.exe. We just make our computer to 
act as database server. He listen for requests on localhost on port 27017 and responds to them. 
He only handles data in the database, does not serve for any conversion. 
  For this purpose we have server/db.js file which we run from the command line. Since this is a technology 
that is usually executed on the client side, we need a special mechanism that will enable execution 
on server side. Therefore, we have node.exe which will launch this script and thus build a server that 
will communicate directly with user's interface on one side and on the other with database server.
To do this, you need to find mentioned folder through command line and type 'node db.js'. If you can not type
after this command then everything is ok. The same goes for the other one, mongod.exe.
  Now the only thing that's left is to open client/interface.html. There you will see what has been described 
at the top of the document and if everything is configured properly you can try how it works . 
Important fact is that the server is always looking for the data collection 'collection' on the database server 
which will initially be empty so you have to enter data with option 'post'. 
You can enter data with a different number of parameters.

Since the problem is only done a couple of days, the structure of documents is not at a high level. 
I will try to fix it anytime soon.




